Homework 1 The hands-on project for CS441 is divided into three homeworks to build a Large Language Model (LLM) from scratch. The first homework requires students to implement an LLM encoder using massively parallel distributed computations in the cloud, the goal of the second homework is to train the decoder using a neural network library as part of a cloud-based computational platform called Spark and the third, final homework is to create an LLM-based generative system using Amazon Bedrock to respond to clients' requests using cloud-deployed lambda functions. Much of the background information is based on the book Build a Large Language Model (From Scratch) that provides an example of the LLM implementation in Python and it is available from Safari Books Online that you can access with your academic subscription. All images in this homework description are used from this book. The goal of this homework is for students to gain experience with solving a distributed computational problem using cloud computing technologies. The main textbook group (option 1) will design and implement an instance of the map/reduce computational model using AWS EMR whereas the alternative textbook group (option 2) will use the CORBA model. You can check your textbook option in the corresponding column of the gradebook on the Blackboard. Grade: 15% This Git repo contains the homework description that uses an open-source implementation of a tokenizer toolkit JTokkit and deeplearning4j that is a suite of tools for deploying and training deep learning models using the JVM. Students may invest some time to learn how the use cases of JTokkit that are shown in tests, however, it is not required for completing this homework.
Preliminaries As part of this first homework assignment students are going to learn how to create and manage Git project repository, create an application in Scala, create tests using widely popular Scalatest framework, and expand on the provided SBT build and run script for their applications. Your job as a student in this course is to learn to use a Map/Reduce framework in the cloud environment.